So we've been seeing the obligatory uses of the mood tense, and we will continue to look at some of these uses.
To choose is Elahir Elahir Elahir which sounds a little bit like
Elect.
Yes, elect, related to elect.
Election in Spanish is election.
I choose from elegir is elijo.
So what happened there?
The air became E.
Yes, the E or the F sound became an I or an E sound.
So instead of splitting, this E just turns into an I.
And that happens sometimes in Spanish with a few verbs when we stress the E instead of splitting it will just turn into an I.
So here we have elijo.
And it's just when we stress it.
So how would you say we choose from elegir?
Elegimos.
Good.
So there the E is not turning into an I because we're not stressing it.
Elegimos.
But in the other places where we stress it it will.
So we have elijo.
You informal you choose Eliches?
Eliches.
Good.
So how would you say I don't want you to choose
For me.
Now when for means on my behalf, I don't want you to choose for me.
I don't want you to choose on my behalf.
The four that we use is por.
But maybe we don't mean on my behalf.
Maybe we mean I don't want you to choose something for me.
Literally something that is for me.
So in that case we would use para.
But let's make the sentence like on my behalf.
I don't want you to choose for me.
I don't want you to choose on my behalf.
Speaking informally.
No quiero que elijas por mí.
Very good.
Good.
So por me is like on my behalf.
I don't want you to take my decisions.
No quiero que elijas por mi.
To break was romper or romperse if we say something breaks without saying who breaks it
We said that the romper was related to rupture in English, which also means it's related to corrupt.
The rapt of corrupt is rupture, disrupt, erupt.
So Romper is to break.
How would you say I don't want it to break?
I don't want it to break.
No quiero que rompa.
If you say no quiero que rompa, I'm waiting to hear what you don't want it to break.
Loromba uh lo not loromba.
It's a good if you were to say no kiroke loromba, it would mean I don't want him or her to break it or you formul to break it.
If you say no quiero checking who, we're just saying I don't want it to break, I don't want it to break itself, even though we don't literally mean itself.
We said that we can use para for para.
We can use para like to when it's in order to
So when we have a two in English which implies in order to we should put para in Spanish, what was to find?
Encontrar.
Encontrarse.
Encontrarse to find oneself.
is to meet up to meet up.
So how would you say we have met up or we have found ourselves or each other, which is the same word in Spanish?
Good.
Nosemos encontrado.
We have met up.
So we have met up in order to speak.
We have met up to speak.
We have met up in order to speak.
So nosemos encontrado para hablar.
Good.
Nos hemos encontrado para hablar.
So we have met up to speak.
And although we wouldn't say in order to speak usually in English, if that to speak implies in order to speak, then we will put para in Spanish.
But after para ke, so that, paraque, you must use the mood tense.
We have cooked in order that they eat.
We have cooked so they eat.
Hemos cocinado para que coman.
Good, we have cooked so that they eat.
And you can't make the shortcut there of para comer, hemos cocinado para comer, because of course it would just sound like we have cooked in order to eat, in order for us to eat.
Good
To go back or to return is bolver, volver.
Volver.
Volver, like in revolve, the volve of
Revolve is Volver and exists in Spanish revolver but in Spanish revolver means to stir.
Revolver.
So volver is to return or to go back or to come back.
How do you think you would say I return, I come back or go back?
Volvo.
Vuelvo?
Buelvo.
Good, the old splits.
How would you say you come back or you go back, speaking informally?
Volver, take it slowly.
Good Welves.
Now if you say so that you come back in order for you to come back so that you come back
Para que vuelvas.
Good.
So you could say something like, I've done it so that you come back.
I've done it so that you come back.
So I have done the version of Asser after Aber after any version of Aber is Etsho
It's very irregular.
And we said the etcho, the version of Aser after Aber, also means fact.
So I have done.
How is it?
I have done.
E et I have done it so that you come back informally
Lo echo para que vuelvas.
Good.
Lo he hecho para que vuelvas.
How would you say I have done it so that they come back?
Lo he hecho para que vuelvan.
Good.
How would you say they have done it so that we come back?
They have done it.
so that we come back.
Good.
Loancho para que volvamos.
They have done it so that we come back.
And I should mention that you might hear para shortened down in Spanish to pa.
So para que would sound like paque, pa' que volvamos.
How much this happens or if it happens at all depends on dialect.
So you will notice it.
If you hear pa it's just para.
What was the word for so like in so tired?
Tan and Tambian T A M B I E N is aswell, also
And it actually has tan inside there.
The N turned to an M because of that B, it softened it.
So we have tan and then
Bien, tan bien.
Just like in English as well.
Tan other than so can also be translated as as in certain circumstances.
And then well from as well, bien.
So interestingly, they are like direct
translations of each other, even though if you think about it the direct translation doesn't make any sense as well.
But it's the same in English and Spanish.
As well también
So how would you say so that you too, so that you as well come back and let's speak informally
Para que tú también vuelvas.
Good.
Para que tú también vuelvas o para que vuelvas tú también.
So how would you say we have done everything?
We have done everything so that you also come back.
Hemos hecho todo para que tú también vuelvas.
Good, very good.
Very good.